We need to get data into
this Astro component, so
we're going to create a new
Astro component that will be for
listing items and then that's
what we're going to display here.
And this is gonna be a child component so
we're going to create one
in the components directory
called shop-items.astro,
this naming convention is my
preference I use Kebab case.
Instead of Pascal case for components
that drives some people up the wall,
I'm sorry if you are one of them.
To me, this is just easier to scan,
I don't know,
I don't like capital letters in
file names.
Yeah, I see some nods.
Yeah, that's how I feel about it [LAUGH].
Okay, so inside this, first we're
gonna set up a little helper function,
and I am going to actually copy paste
this function around a little bit.
Because I use it twice and
I didn't think that was enough times to
merit making like a utility function.
And this is a case where I think like
somebody's gonna be screaming you
should dry this out and
and I don't, I don't care.
So what I'm using is a built-in
API called, the international and
then the number format API
allows me to format currency.
So that I don't have to figure
out how to do that myself.
And it's really just a wonderful
little API that saves me so
much time and
then I can pass in my amount.
And what this will do is any amount that I
send into this format currency will come
out formatted as US dollars.
It is a delightful way to save myself
a bunch of manual processing of numbers.
So next, let's load some products.
So I'm gonna grab a result
from the fetch API.
So Astro enables top level await so
that we don't have to write async
functions to load products.
This is an extraordinarily convenient
little thing that just avoids some mental
loop de loops.
To get product, so
we're going to run fetch.
And inside of this,
we're going to hit https.
And I made a little API to power this,
so it's gonna be called
astro-frontend-masters-api.netlify.app/ap-
i/products.
Let me make this bigger so
that you can see that whole thing.
And we can just hit that straight up.
Then what I'm gonna do is just make
sure that we don't have an issue.
So if anything is wrong with the response,
we'll just console-error and
show it so
that we can check out what's going on.
Fingers crossed, no issues, I've now built
this app several times in preparation for
today and it worked all of those times.
But since we're live there
is a decent chance that this
is all going to blow up in my face.
Then I have a type declared called
ShopItem that we're gonna use for
this and you can just grab that like that.
So we're gonna get back an array of
shop items from this product API.
And we get those by awaiting result.json().
So this is hitting an API.
We're loading the response.
We're checking if the response is okay.
And if the response is okay,
we're grabbing the body of that
response as a JSON object.
And that gives us our shopItems which
we can now see our shop items that's not
super helpful because it doesn't show
us all of the properties in there.
But that's okay because
autocomplete will still work so
we're gonna do a new section
in here called shop-items.
And then let me actually leave this up for
a bit in case anybody still needs it.
Then we're gonna do some looping, so
we're gonna grab our shop items and
we're going to map over them and
grab each item.
And inside of here we
want to return a div, and
that div that we want is going
to have a class of item.
And again, we don't have to add a key or
anything because astro
components don't work that way.
Then we can add an image and
the source is going to be item.image, and
we're just gonna autocomplete our way
to victory here, item.image.src.
And then we can add the alt.
The alt will be item.image.alt.
And below that, we're gonna set up an h2
to be the item name, so item.title.
Where is it?
I don't know why that autocomplete
wasn't working but there it is.
Then we're gonna get the description so
item.description.
Hello, I thought I was helping everybody.
I'm not very good at TypeScript,
I think it shows.
So then what we can do is we're
gonna grab that price and
because I have that helper,
we're gonna grab formatCurrency and
pass in the item.price as our amount,
and that will output a price.
And then the last thing is we're
not gonna do this just yet, but
we're gonna put a little placeholder in to
say we need to add a, add to cart button.
Okay, so then we're not even gonna
bother looking at this unstyled.
We're just gonna throw the styles in.
So we're gonna go into
the _workshop-assets,
the styles folder, and
then components-shop-items.
I named them to match the directory.
And then paste that
into a style component.
And then if we come back out here and
reload nothing happens because
we're not using the component yet.
So next,
let's go add this component into our shop.
So to do that up at the top,
just like we did with the layout,
we're going to import shop items.
From components/shop-items.
And then down here where
it says list products,
we're going to replace that
with a ShopItems component.
This doesn't need any props yet,
we're gonna add props later, but
what this will give you is
a list of our sandwich kits.
Great, easy peasy.
So this is one of the things that, again,
I really like about the way
that Astro is set up.
Is it's not asking you to learn
a lot of really specific APIs
to make things work,
we get to use browser standards.
So here's the Fetch API,
this is a browser standard.
If you need documentation on it, you go
to the Mozilla developer network, right?
MDN docs, you hit up Fetch.
This works everywhere.
This is a standard browser API.
You can run it in your console if
you wanna test it, it's great.
And then we just loop over it using
regular old JavaScript stuff very
familiar if you've worked in JSX before.
But we get some of the benefits of not
writing JSX, like being able to use class
as its own attribute and not having to
add keys to things to make them function.
So it's just very pleasant,
like it's just very nice to work with.